
there will be a building management system in place. But there isn't a facilities, engineer or system operator on site.
So this
complex building management system get shove to somebody just because they understand how computers work, or because they deal with schedules or something like that.
And a lot of times.
The things that we talk about within the industry just goes over somebody's head because they don't understand all these things that we revert refer to. So that's the reason for this. Hopefully, you find it useful and worthwhile.
and let's begin.
So key transfer is where all of this begins.
We talk about turning on the air conditioning or turning on the heat. And really what we're doing with this is simply transferring heat from inside of a building to outside of a building, or from one medium to another.
And everything within this world really
works based upon heat transfer in one way, shape or form. So this is a very simplistic diagram. and you can kind of think of this as the way you would interact or expect things to look like within your home.
We have our furnace or air handler here.
This one has a duct to outside to bring some fresh air in. Here is our return error. It gets pulled through this unit to either heat or cool it
by this fan blown into the duct in the duct system.
is in place and hidden in walls and above ceilings and below floors and things, to be able to bring this tempered conditioned, cleaned air
back into the space where we're at. So this is really what is happening even on larger commercial systems. It just does it in a little bit different way.
The next thing that we talk about is cooling and dehumidification, and the fact that these things work together. I've run into scenarios that people are
especially schools. Schools will run into this quite frequently if they have air conditioning, running. It's middle of the summer.
and they're having terrible humidity problems. because the bulk of the students aren't there.
So these systems are running air conditioning, and it quickly cools down the temperature in the space. But that quick, cool down doesn't allow it to remove any of the humidity that it can do when it's loaded up with people
so real quick. What we're looking at in this slide
is, we have a coil that we refer to as an evaporator.
We bring our return air or warm air from the building through our duct, work it passes across this coil
in the air, coming in. If it's 75 degrees. it gets cooled
and it
leaves the coil. It's a 60 degrees. Well is that air cools just like you see
water, or condensate form on a glass of ice water on a muggy day. The same thing happens with this air as it passes through these coils.
so the water
collects on the fins of the coil, drips down, goes down a drain, and then the air that comes out is cooler and drier to recirculate around the building
so cooling and dehumidification work together, and that can be a very challenging thing depending on your building type and what the systems are designed to do.
Now I don't want anybody to freak out. And hopefully the attendance Count Isn't dropping like a rock with these first couple of slides bear with me. It's not going to, hurt, I promise.
So here again is that evaporator coil we were talking about, and here's our 75 degree room air, and our 55 degree air that gets blown into our duct work and then back into our spaces.

So this refrigeration circuit
utilizes refrigerant that we pump with a compressor.
We typically have a coil again. Think in terms of what you see at your house. You've got your outside air conditioning unit that typically holds the compressor in the condenser outside.
and then we see our lines that run back into the house. And this is what sits inside of your furnace or air handler.
and then we have a larger line that comes back out of the house and back to the condensing units that's outside. And again, what we're doing is we're transferring heat.
The heat is absorbed from the room. through the coil and into the refrigerant which comes back into the compressor is a cool vapor. The compressor does
it's process and turns it into hot vapor, which we bring through the outside coils.
And
even if it's a 95 degree outdoor day, we can still it push that heat
out of the refrigerant. It comes back in, and the entire process starts over again.
So one of the things I want to touch on is the cleanliness of these coils very important to understand. The evaporators have filters. That's why you have filters in place that you have cleaned or replaced
a monthly quarterly.
sometimes once 8 years. Whether it needs it or not, all depends on whatever the maintenance program is.
The outside coils. Don't necessarily usually have filters.
but they are just as important to keep clean. and you will need to make sure that this outside coil is cleaned regularly, which is part of the process that your mechanical contractors typically work through.
Let me take a quick sip here.
So another slide that may have you running for the hills is simply a reference to what a btu is.
Everything that you hear about within the Hvac world refers to things in Btus. British thermal units is what that means
in it is the amount of heat or energy required
to change £1 of water by one degree.
so keep in mind. The pound of water is not a gallon of water. One gallon of water is roughly £8 a little more. So that's
the process by which we measure this.
Next to you. Here things referred to as tons, and that refers to
tons of cooling, and it's literally how much cooling can
be produced by melting one ton of ice. So 12,000 B to use is one ton of ice. and that is what it takes in 1 h
to produce cooling. So these things have a little bit more meaning to them rather than just these generic terms that things get thrown all over the place.
The next type of system we're going to talk about is air-cooled chillers.
They are called chillers.
Look again like the outside portion of your residential style air conditioning unit.
just much larger typically
and it will have its coils fans to be able to get rid of the heat.
and it also has
that cooling evaporator coil within it
that cools water. that, utilizing a pump. pushes the chilled water to air handling systems
or to little cabinet unit systems that we may have throughout the building.
and then that water is returned back to the chiller
to have the heat transferred out of the water back into the refrigerant system.
producing cold water that gets recirculated back to the building. So again an air, cool, chiller
relies upon a pump
to move chilled water to air handlers or fan coils
the air. Handlers in turn push the air through duct work
that we end up feeling in our spaces. And there's various types of air handlers. We'll get into more of that in a little bit.
Next we have water cooled chillers. So with water cooled chillers. This is the chiller itself. They're typically much larger.
and i'm not going to spend a great deal of time on this, because more than likely, if you are the owner of a small building, you're not going to have large water-cooled equipment.
but I want it part of the discussion with the water cooled chiller. We also have
cooling towers that again transfer the heat. We have one barrel on the the
chiller that deals with what we refer to as condenser water that goes outside to reject the heat outside of the building.
and then we have our chilled water, which, just like the air, cooled chiller, is what circulated into the building.
and through air, handlers or fan coils, and the like. So it's 2 totally separate water systems that these utilize.
Next, we're going to talk about. Boilers.
Boilers probably are a lot less mystical than chilled water systems.
because boilers have been in everything they're referred to in movies and TV shows and all kinds of things.
So most people have a general understanding of what boilers are and what they're used for.
Boilers comes in all shapes and sizes. You might see very large boilers that looks like this big green one here. and a lot of times. Those will possibly be steam boilers when you see them in that setup.
then we have the smaller high efficiency boilers. Here's a very small steam boiler example, where it has a sight glass on the side of the boiler, to be able to see that it's half full of water, so that it can boil the water and make steam. Hence the term boiler.
Then we see a lot of boilers where they are connected together
in unison, and use several boilers to stage up.
and that way. If it's a mild day, you might only run the burner in one of these. If it's a bit cooler.
you can bring in a second boiler on very cold days you can bring in all of the boilers to be able to meet the demands of the heat load. So these boilers, just like the chiller systems, utilize a pump to move the water around the building
unless it's a steam system which is something we're not getting into today.
We have chilled water, fan coils. and these come in all types of varieties where they may be ceiling mounted like these examples that we see
they could be cabinet units that are along the perimeter walls within a facility.
See this type a lot of times in vestibules and things like that. Sometimes they're just heal ceiling hung. or they stand in the corner of a space. So all of these all do pretty much the same thing in the chilled water
is connected to these pipe headers, and the water is circulated through the coils. The fans blow the warm air across the coil.
You'll see on the bottom. Here there's drain pans.
and that's where that condensate collects and goes down this drain
and over to an appropriate drain within the building.
So there's 2 pipe fan coils in these in a lot of situations will utilize both the boiler in hot water.
To go through. The same piping is the chilled or the chilled chiller water. Sorry. So if you have that scenario.
it cut down on costs while they were building the facility, because they didn't have to have 3 or 4 pipes.
but you have to be very aware, when you have a two-pipe system with both heating and cooling for the purpose. that if you switch from the boiler system to the chilled water system that you have to dissipate all of that heat energy
before you open up the valves and push hot water through that chiller. because the chiller is designed to run with cold temps, not the
180 degree water that a boiler may have in it.
So there may be those challenges in some of the systems that you have in buildings around the country and world. For that matter.
fan coil Ventilation options
have to be tackled in a couple of different ways.
We have to bring fresh air into the building. Right
so especially we learned that with all of this stuff regarding Covid
and bringing people back to work, became very, very important.
that we were ventilating things correctly in the process.

in some of the fan coil applications. We have an outdoor air intake
through the back wall of this, which will in a lot of cases, you'll see these applied in school classrooms. and the fan coil units are against an outside wall underneath the windows. Typically.
this connects to the outside, and there's a damper in here you can see the actuator right here that opens and closes and allows fresh air to come in and circulate through the rooms.
So this is a pretty common scenario and a lot of buildings.
There's also a dough as unit dedicated outdoor air system.
and what this does is, it brings in fresh air, tempers it and filters it to get all of the pollen and all of that kind of stuff out of the air.
and that gets distributed through duct work down into the space.
and this is only tempering the air. Typically, it'll provide, like 65 degree air
It is removing the humidity. But we're not using it to necessarily cool or heat the spaces it's just tempering that outside air.
Then we have our fan coil units in this format.
utilizing our chilled water and our hot water to actually do the temperature control within your building. So this is a very common scenario of what you can end up, having in place
another type of system
that is very, very popular in becoming more popular as time goes on
our water source heat pumps.
So with this type of application. You can have heat pumps of various shapes and sizes, as we show here
that are in control of specific spaces, meaning. We can have one heat pump in this office and a separate heat pump in this office
we are creating heat with a person being in there a computer working.
and this person has their own thermostat, and may still want it warmer. So this heat pump can be in heating mode.
and it ends up pushing heat out of the duct
to warm this space according to the thermostat.
The next office over
has one person in the computer, but this office is calling for cooling.
So this heat pump is able to operate
in due the inverse
of what this office is doing. So we're able to do cooling in this office and heating in this office.
The way this works is. Each of these heat pumps
has a refrigeration system in it, just like a typical air conditioner, with one added device called a reversing valve, which makes it
reverse the flow of the refrigerant.
So the hot water or the hot air comes out, or the cold air comes out
of the interior ductor. So in this scenario it makes it very easy to control the load.
Next, this
is cooled by a water loop that runs around the building similar to our condenser water that we saw on the water cooled chiller.
So this water loop
runs to each of the heat pumps. It has a supply line in a return line.

and

it brings this water out to possibly a cooling tower to reject the heat out of the building, if needed.
but any heat that's created. Sorry the heat created over in this room, because, remember, we're doing heat transfer.
So we're absorbing the heat into the heat pump from the return air.
blowing cool air back into the space that heat that the heat pump absorbed is injected into the water. Piping
or transferred is a better term.
so this heat can make it to this piece of equipment that's calling for heat. It again is running the refrigeration circuit in this case backwards.
So this one is pushing the warm air out and used the heat that this one created.
So the system can kind of balance itself. If you have some areas of the building that are warm, some areas that are cold.
If it's a warm summer day, and everything is calling for cooling, we have to dissipate that heat if nothing's using it.
So we push it out to our cooling tower, and that does it in the same fashion that it does in a chilled water system with fans, and being able to remove that heat from the system.

Another way that this is utilized

is with ground loops. and you may have heard of these as ground source, heat, pump systems.
And what this does is our earth
generally below 4 feet. In most of the United States. It is a constant, about 55 degree temperature
4 feet down from the surface. So you have this giant thermal bank
and this loop temperature.
We don't need it to be very warm or very cold, for the heat pumps to do their job. We just need it to be rather steady.
so we can use this heat energy
in the middle of winter with a ground loop. it absorbs the heat from the earth and puts it into the piping
so it can be transferred with the heat pumps into the spaces.
In the summer months it's still moving the water. but if the water is coming back warmer than the earth, then it gives up its heat.
So
these are very, very efficient systems. When you're using ground loops, because you don't have any moving parts, there's no fans there. Isn't anything but
heat transfer
is these things get built
now. On occasion you will have a scenario where you must add more heat. Then either the size of the ground loop and what it can carry.
or by virtue of. There is no ground loop, and you need to be able to add some heat to the loop for cold months, and then in that case you may have a boiler
in conjunction with the cooling tower. to be able to put all of these things together in a complete system.
Next, we're going to talk about air handling. So this is very common scenarios that you have in a lot of buildings refreshing where we were. So here's our boiler.
Here is our chiller. We have our spaces.
This end space is getting heated and cooled with a fan coil, and that is hot water pipes and chilled water pipes that run to this
and that is how this is managed. These offices are utilizing an air handling unit. We have return air, duct work that pulls the air
from the floor in these spaces and returns it to the air handler.
It has dampers that open up outside to bring in outside air and do the ventilation portion of the HVAC.
The air handler has a hot water coil in it, and a chilled water coil in it in most circumstances.
And here is our heating loop that goes to the hot water coil. Here's our cooling
loop, provided by the chiller for the chilled water coil and our fan
connected to duct work that brings
the air back to terminal units, or
affectionately known as VAV boxes in a lot of cases.
So we have our hot water loop, our chilled water loop. In the summer months we run the chiller, and turn off the boiler in the inverse for the winter. We turn on the boiler, shut down the chillers.
and we have valves on the air handler that open and close to allow warm water or hot water in or chilled water
to control the temperature of the air that comes down the duct into these spaces.
So air handlers we typically have indoors.
and these can be a few different styles. They can be a small package air handler, a Central Station type of air handler, or a custom built for whatever you need this thing to do.
Notice: the Central Station has several doors, and it's got several sections.
These are in a lot of cases built in this format.
so that way.
If an air handler has to be replaced, it fits through all of the doors and elevators to be able to get it into the building, and then it gets reassembled.
Now let's talk about air handling rooftop systems. So a large VAV rooftop is what we show an example of here.
and I'll explain more about what VAV is in a moment.
Then we have single zone, constant volume, rooftops. These are the little package units that you see
on a lot of
strip mall stores, various small buildings, or you might have a lot of these on a very large building that they have control of individual offices, for
then we have small VAV air handlers.
Oh, sorry rooftops to be able to be on the smaller. You know one or two story buildings, with
maybe 10 to 20 zones on it.
So these are the rooftop pieces of equipment that you'll typically find. And again, this is a very generic overview of these systems.
The VAV air handlers get connected to VAV terminal units.
And this is an example of lots of different varieties of these things. So VAV stands for variable air volume. and what that means is
the air handler or rooftop, let me back it up a slide. This is creating our cold air by transferring the heat out of the building
into these coils where the fan pulls outside air across it, and rejects that heat.
The cold air is connected to the individual zones by duct work.
and then each of these VAV boxes has got a damper in it to throttle back how much air is coming through this thing.
to be able to provide enough air conditioning for the zone.
Other examples are VAVs with electric reheat
series Fan VAVs with Electric Reheat, where there's a fan actually inserted inside of the VAV box to be able to control the air flow and keep it constant.
We have parallel Fan VAVs which these
a lot of times we'll be utilized with hot water coils in these. so the fan turns on it, pulls air from the ceiling, pushes it through the coil and into the space.
independently of the cool air produced by the rooftop unit. And then we have dual-ducted VAVs
which also get commonly referred to as mixing boxes where we have hot duct work that comes from what we refer to as a hot deck coming in this damper cold deck or cold air coming in this damper, and then they work in unison with our controller
to be able to provide enough warm air or cool air to manage the space.
so if that didn't make you dizzy enough. let's look at it a little bit different way. So each of our rooms has a sensor that we have about it on the wall
typically referred to as our thermostat
that is connected to a controller, and the Controller has got a damper actuator with it.
so that this gives the temperature of the room information to the controller. It runs a control program
and determines. Is it warm in the space or cool in the space, while warm and cool, is relative, depending on what the set point of the space is, and we'll talk more about that in a minute.
So if it's
warm in the space. If our set point is 72, and it gets up to 74.
This will open the damper let me back up a slide two slides
open this damper up and let more cool air from the air handler to be entered into the space
once the temperature gets down to the set point. this damper will close down partially.
and allow just enough air in to ventilate the space. So there's always enough fresh air
that, like I said, is connected to the damper that we have in place.
This is all happening in the VAV boxes typically above the ceiling.
and then that outlet is connected to the registers that we see or grills that we have in each of our office spaces.
So let's look at this a little bit different way.
We have our
a small VAV rooftop.
We have our duct work from coming from the rooftop and going to each of the VAV boxes.
Each of these has got a controller mounted on it again. That damper actuator is connected to the shaft of this damper.
so it can open and close these dampers and allow how much air is required through the vent into the space the thermostat reacts to it.
sends the information of the space temp back to the controller, and the Controller again makes its determination of opening and closing the dampers. So another piece of this that comes into play
is, if we start to close these dampers down. What makes this a VAV rooftop is this has the capability of slowing down its fan. Usually nowadays with what we refer to as a VFD or variable frequency drive.
So this air handler doesn't have to move as much air. It can slow down the fan
as these back off their airflow. If it's slowing down the fan. using less energy, we're saving energy dollars.
So this is what's going on inside of your small building. VAV systems. The whole principle works the same way on larger VAV systems.
and you can have multi-story buildings with multiple air handlers and hundreds of VAVs
in each of the zones throughout the building. So it's all very scalable in the way these things are built.
So now let's talk about our set points in schedules in what all of this is referring to. So, looking at our set point bar, and this is taken right from our owner, operator, training class. You've seen this set point bar on our graphics for our zones within our web control systems.
and this
is our occupied set points on the top band. and the unoccupied set points on the bottom band
occupied conditions. Heat set point, as we see here, is 70 degrees.
Cooling set point is 75 degrees. This representation
of this heavy white bar
shows what our space temperature would be.
It's not aligned with the screenshot that I grab from the thermostat. This should be over about here for 72 degrees, but you get the point.
So when you are occupied. that means the building or zone schedule is in occupied mode.
It is using our occupied set points to maintain the temperature in the space.
If the temperature falls below 70 degrees.
The colors for the zone turn blue. dark blue, or maybe red, if it's too far away from it.
and the mechanical equipment will do whatever they have available to them
to provide heat for the space and bring that temperature back up.
So if it gets cooler than 70, we refer to this as going into heat mode, and if it's a VAV like we looked at previously.
it would at least start with closing down the damper.
and
allowing less cool air to come into the space. If it has reheat available.
it will then turn on the heater to bring the temperature of the air coming into the space back up.
If it gets above the cooling set point. the same thing occurs, but it opens the VAV damper
to allow more cooling to come into the space. There's more pieces in play than this oversimplified means.
But hopefully, you're getting the point that
this is the way the mechanical piece of equipment is interacting based upon our set points. Now, when we are unoccupied, that's triggered by our schedule.
If we do not have a schedule in place, or we are unoccupied. We widen out the set points to be able to
basically save energy by relaxing the temperature control within the space. When we are unoccupied. We don't need to worry about maintaining 70 degrees in the space if it's the middle of winter. On a Saturday afternoon we can allow that temperature to fall all the way down to 55 degrees in the space.
and then warm it back up again to 70 on Monday, or the inverse for cooling.
When we are occupied we're concerned about keeping our occupants comfortable.
When we are unoccupied we are concerned with energy savings which equates to dollars savings.

So that is the toggle between

occupied and unoccupied set points that gets triggered by our schedules.
Now, if you have a space
that you want to be able to change the temperature in the space our zone sensors are set up by default to give you, plus or minus 2 degree
change in set point. So that means.
if I am at 70 degrees in the space, and I want to make it warmer.
I can press the up arrow, and that will shift all of the colors over on the occupied bar
by 2 degrees. It does this in programming inside of the controller you won't. See it react that way on most graphics. But that's what you're doing.
You're making this change.
and that raises the set point.
Conversely, you can move the arrow down by 2 degrees and lower the set point and make it cooler.
I have seen many scenarios where people say you know what this is. The boss's office.
I don't want it to be limited. I never want to get an angry call from the boss. Let's make this plus or minus 5 degrees, or plus, or minus 10 degrees, and they can control it any way that they want to
be careful doing that
because a lot of times people don't understand what's happening when they just push the button, and if you give somebody range to do so, and they move that up by 5 or 10 degrees.
they could be shifting back and forth from heating mode to cooling mode and creating a never ending cycle, especially if this is an area where there's multiple cubicles served by one thermostat, and you start the thermostat wars.
I want it warmer. I want it cooler, and you're shifting back and forth.
So be aware we give it plus or minus 2 degrees, for a reason that also matches the plus, or the 2 degree bandwidth that we have for each of our colors
which make up our thermographic floor plans which I'll take you there now.
So here's our thermographic colors represented by rooms on our floor plan.
Here is our set point bar.
and we can see that the zones that are in green
means. The temperature is in the green band between our heating and cooling set points areas in yellow.
The temperature is above our cooling set point, so web control renders that color on the graphic
and the inverse for the blue. So we have on the bottom of our floor plan our legend. and that all ties right back to our set points.
So you understand, all of this is working in conjunction with the mechanical systems
to be able to raise and lower the temperature in the space depending on what the demand is.
But what about the bottom? By and what is happening when we talk about our systems being unoccupied.
it's the same thing. When we are unoccupied
we revert to the lower set point buyers which are 55, and 85
for our heating and cooling set points. the zones
end up showing gray, because that's the gray band instead of the green that we were on previously.
and when things are in gray or unoccupied, we don't have to worry about ventilating the space because it's unoccupied, there's nobody there in most situations to be concerned with.
Then, when we have situations like this IDF room.
which is communications closet sort of thing, maybe a server room.
this
piece of equipment that we're cooling in there never goes home.
So we have to maintain our temperatures in this space
to be able to make sure the equipment doesn't overheat. so that everything stays working on the network side while the rest of the building is able to react to schedules
because the people leave.
So now let's talk about how we get from our unoccupied conditions back to occupied
and doing it in a controlled timely manner.
This is a trend graph, and this is showing us an example of how
optimized start works.
So what we're looking at on the top graph is our legend here shows us the yellow line is our zone temperature.
The blue line is our set point or effective cooling set point
the top of the graph in the green line. The bottom of the graph is our set point for effective heating set point.
So we go unoccupied at 6 pm.
Which means we shift from our 70 75 set points and widen out to our
85 cooling and 55 heating set points.
We can see through the overnight hours. The temperatures
gradually fall. and then the next morning we have something occur here.
We see our set points start to change, starting at about 3 30 in the morning for the heating set point.
and the cooling set point changes at about 4 30.
What this is doing.
utilizing the optimized start algorithm
within our web control system. it changes the set points.
and this is still during unoccupied mode. We go schedule occupied according to this, at about 6 30 am.
So ahead of being scheduled occupied, we start to bring our unoccupied set points closer to our occupied set points.
and when the temperature hits the set point
on the bottom bar or bottom graph, we can see. We turn on our heating stage one.
and it boosts the temperature back up heat stage. One shuts off the
unoccupied heating set point continues to climb until the zone temperature hits the set point again.
at which point heat stage one bumps on. Again we see the dis, the room temperature climb.
and it starts to fall back, bump it on again.
and by this point we are up to schedule occupied time.
and we already have the space up to its proper temperature
for being schedule occupied.
Now, the mechanical systems all will work a little bit differently
in this interaction, and how they work.
The example that I'm showing you here
is a single zone, constant volume unit. Think in terms of the way your house works single unit in terms on the heat or the air conditioning
to manage the house.
and that is what this is doing by bumping the heat on and giving just enough heat for what we need on. Still, instead of waiting until 6:30 am.
That the temperature shoots up. and then the temperature in the space. I'm sorry the set point shoots up in the temperature, and the space continues to fall. and then it has to get pushed way up.
and might take another hour or two to be able to get it back up to temperature.
So this is how our optimized start works with the mechanical equipment.
Kirk. Do we have any questions at this point?
No.

the watching and things are quiet. So you're
doing a great job, all right. Well, we're going to turn left and see how many people are like. Oh, really, you're doing this to us.
So we're going to talk about some common acronyms for HVAC.
Then there'll be a test on this. That is a written essay. No, no, I'm just messing with you what we're going to do wrong Application where to go.
Pdf: that's the one I want. What I'm going to show you is basically a
condensed list, and there's more to them
of the stuff that you hear referred to on a regular basis when it comes to HVAC and I'm not going to read through this entire thing.
This list will be available if you would like it in Pdf format
you can send us an email
to training@carrier.com.
I've got a few different webinars that I'm doing this week. So be very clear of which Webinar, you want this common HVAC acronyms list from.
In fact, this doesn't fit on the screen all at once. Very well, and see if I can get it there. So if you want to grab a screenshot of it at this point, you are welcome to do so, or take a picture. I'm going to give you a few seconds before I rattle through some of these
it gives me an opportunity to take a drink.

All right, so

air conditioning, or A/C is the most common one. A.H.U. Means air Handler unit. and
ASHRAE is a big one to understand You'll see people refer to that. That is the American Society of Heating, Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Engineers.
ASHRAE is the body that researches and determines
how thick the walls should be in a building for proper insulation, and
how many BTUs a boiler must have to be able to properly heat a building. What the tonnage of a chiller must be to be able to properly cool the building.
So that is the society that comes up with the series of standards.
so that every job doesn't have to start from scratch of figuring things out
being that I see we're at 153,
and if there aren't any questions yet, I will just bounce down this list, and perhaps it will generate a question. Next up is BACnet.
BACnet stands for building automation control network. and this is an open communication protocol adopted by ASHRAE
that our building management systems use to talk to each other. Protocol means language.
so it makes it so. Everything is speaking the same language, and we can interact with lighting systems and fire systems and generators, and so forth, because we're speaking common languages.
BCU is a blower coil unit. BTU, as we mentioned British thermal unit.
CFM. Cubic feet per minute.
You'll see this typically used as a measure of volume of air on VAVs.
It's at 100 CFM. Or it's at 1,000. CFM. That's how many cubic feet per minute of air is passing through this thing.
Chilled water, supply temp and chilled water return temp kind of self-explanatory crack is always one that gets a giggle to the uninitiated that simply stands for a computer room A/C unit

cabinet unit heaters.

our C. Condenser water supply and condenser water return versus chilled water supply and return discharge. Air temperature
is the air coming out of a piece of equipment. Typically DHW is referred to as domestic hot water.
DOAS we talked touched on dedicated outdoor air system. A.D.U or P.D.U
dehumidification unit. A PDU is a pool dehumidification unit.
Again. I'll just bounce through a few of these down further VAV boxes. How we typically refer to these things.
and a VAV box, a terminal unit, a fan powered box. These are all kind of the same thing, with different variations on them.
And then
ZVT is another one that you may run across that stands for variable volume and temperature.
and this utilizes dampers similar to VAVs.
But we actually changed the temperature coming down the duct from the rooftop unit to send it into heating mode or cooling mode
for these different things.
So that said. and being that we have a little bit of time. I am going to switch back
and bear with me. I'm going to back up a few slides to talk about something real quick
when you were looking at a VAV system.
a very common scenario that will occur.
There is a misunderstanding of what's happening when we look at our VAV box. If it is warm in the space. and we are calling for cooling.
you may see that your damper on the VAV serving the zone only opens to about 50%.
We're getting 55 degree air coming down the pipe out of our rooftop unit in this damper, even though it's say there's a meeting going on in this space, and it's 76 degrees in there. This damper is only open
50% in people

a lot of times we'll think that is a problem.

Always take the time to look
at what your set point shows on the display. Let's see if I can shift gears real quick
to an example.
So here I switched into one of our web control systems.
Here is our air coming from AHU. One here is our damper, and this shows that it is fully open. It's at a 100% open. The scenario that I'm talking about is when this shows that it's only 50% open
in our temperature is calling for cooling. And you wonder why didn't this go to 100%? We're asking for it.
So this should be doing more.
What you need to watch is the airflow display in the set point display.
If the airflow is within plus or minus 10 of the set point.
It is doing everything it is designed to do.
If I switch back to my other
display. We have several of these dampers that are all on one duct. If this room is running a little warm, and we allow this damper
to go past its cooling set point to a 100% open.
we're going to lose a lot of the air going here, and the rest of the building can end up starving.
So keep that in mind that is displayed on your graphic for a reason to be able to show what the actual airflow is
and what the set point is, and then your damper position in relation to that.
and then you can bounce to your rooftop unit or air handler
to be able to see what is the temperature of the air that's coming down the pipe from this thing.
and so forth.
One last thing I want to show you, and then we will wrap it up unless there's any questions that come in is notice when you have this scenario
and I'm working on just one of our training cases. So this is all fictitious data.
But when we see a set point of 68 degrees in the discharge, air temperature is something that's not aligned to it, and you'll notice this just changed
because I just changed the temperature in that space.
This is what proves to you if your cooling systems are working correctly. If you are asking for 64 degree air to come out of this thing, and it's only giving you 75 degree air
that might be where you end up making a phone call for mechanical service to have somebody look into this or your system provider. If you have support agreements with them with remote accessibility and things
to be able to start troubleshooting. Why are we not giving it the air that we require.
which in turn can cause our system to end up
being overheated in spaces?
